PROJECT PROPOSAL FORM

Group: G14 Student 1: Patrick Leduc 40034182 Student 2: Febrian Francione 40049253 Date submitted: October 13th, 2020

Propose a title for your project. Training a Poker Agent with Reinforcement Learning

Describe the goal of your project. In recent years, there have been many instances of computers beating world ranked human players in their respective games.
In this project we aim to implement an agent that can play poker in a simulated environment, and train it with reinforcement learning. We will also explore, 
different methods, durations of training and compare the accumulated reward of these different scenarios. The goal of this project is to create a poker playing agent
that exhibits some form of knowledge on how to succeed in playing poker. Ideally it would learn how to properly bet/bluff to stand up to an average human player. 
Describe the data you plan to use. On one hand from the reinforcement learning perspective, the data will be provided through the game engine we will be using.
The main sources of data are from the agent interacting with the environment, i.e. playing against others. However, through this process we plan to test various methods 
such as: • Number of games played to determine the reward over time • Playing against a human player • Number of total players, 1 – 6 On the other hand, there are various
sources for Poker datasets. For example, this contains a large set of Poker Hands which can be used to predict the likelihood that the players hand will win the round. 
Through a large data set such as this, we could train an agent with the data and then define a set of rules for it to play under. For example, if the agent predicts 
a probability of success > 50% then the agent will call/raise otherwise they would fold. This would be interesting to compare to a reinforcement learning approach.
Describe how you will measure “success.” The success of this project will be determined by the following criteria: • If the agent can increase its reward over time 
through reinforcement learning • If the agent competes with an average human player (with a degree of success) What we are also interested in measuring, is the tactics
it will use, so can it bluff/raise like humans do. Since poker is a game of imperfect information, you really need to use these tactics to win hands.
If the agent develops some sort of strategy like this to a degree, that would be considered a success. Describe how work will be divided.
• Patrick will set up the poker game engine • Patrick will implement the q-learning algorithm for the Reinforcement Learning poker bot
• Patrick will record reward data for various time steps • Febrian will preprocess the poker hands dataset
• Febrian will train a model using the poker hands data to predict success
• Both will write the report List the main Python packages you expect to use.
PyTorch for implementing the RL algorithm PyPokerEngine for the poker environment PyPokerGUI for a poker GUI to play against/observe our agent in action
